                           Flower-Lighter


The program is a firmware of an avr microcontroller. A device with
this microcontoller makes extra-lighting of a room.

The device has a usual human clock. It is used to notice the start and
duration of lighting.

Main algorithm of the program is a periodical procedure. It is also
trigged by timer. The procedure runs from the start of extra-lighting
time and durates until extra-lighting time is exhausted. The procedure
checks lighting level. If the level is okay then the procedure exits.

All periodical actions of the program run by a timer interrupt. A
handler of the timer interrupt consequently calls all periodical
procedures. By default interrupt handler is uninterruptable. The first
periodical procedure to be called is a clock one. After exit from it
interrupts are enabled. Rest procedures also don't support
interruptable processing but they can run too long and the clock
procedure should be called after each a timer interrupt. Rest
procedures are ignored if previous interrupt handler hasn't finished
yet.

The device has got several levels of lamplight intensity. Zero level
is when all lamps are switched off. First level is when minimalist
subset of lamps are switched on and so on. Last level is when all
lamps are switched on.

A lamp has got limited resource of switching cycles and it isn't
big. So the program should care about frequent switching lamps. A
situation of continuous switching on and off when lamplighting leven N
gives scanty resulting lighting level but the level N+1 leads to
redundant intensity should be prevented.

The program must keep a track of lighting intensity for each power
level. Calculated values are changed by a delta which is got after
each iteration of the main periodic procedure for current
level. I.e. there is a suggestion lighting intensity is linear.

The procedure picks minimal power level which provide a reasonable
level of the total lighting intensity.

A minimal period of time between changing of levels is constrained
some invariant. Let's say it's 5 minutes. This constraint doesn't work
if user changes parameters of the lighting program.

If the device cannot provide the reasonable lighting intensity
(external power isn't or overall power of lamps is insufficient) then
the program increases temporary extra-lighting period by adding
penalty minutes. If summary of penalty minutes is more the end of a
day then overflow part goes to the next day. A plant also needs a
minimal dark period of day. Also it must be accounted.

The program state shouldn't depend from an external power
supply. Because the device has got a standby battery. It must not be
used when external power is available. This battery is used to save
the state and to wait the emerge of external power. The device in the
normal work mode spends much more energy for electronic
relays. Waiting mode requires much less energy. The program should be
aware about state of external power.

A user interface of the device has a power swtich, 2 buttons (menu and
action), a 2-digit numeric display and few led lamps (power, period,
lighting).

Buttons are only used to configure the device. Because the device acts
absolutely automatically. Menu button flips a cycle list of
configuration parameters. The numeric display shows a value of one
parameter at time. By default number hours of current time is shown.

Just after a click by the menu button the display shows an
abbreviation of a current parameter during 5 seconds. A parameter
value will be displayed after 5 second from changing current
parameter. To see the value early a user should press the action
button. All following clicks of the action button changes a parameter
value.

Menu items:
  Abbreviation   Description                 Range       Measure       Action
  HO             Hours of current time       0-23        Hours         +1
  nI             Minutes of current time     0-59        Minutes       +1
  SE             Seconds of current time     0-59        Seconds       +1
  HS             Hours of start lighting     0-23        Hours         +1
  nS             Minutes of start lighting   0-59        Minutes       +1
  dL             Duration of lighting        1-20        Hours         +1
  dd             Minimum duration of night   1-20        Hours         +1
  pH             Hours of total penalty      0-99        Hours         Reset
  pI             Minutes of total penalty    0-59        Minutes       Reset
  IL             Minimum level of total      0-99        %             +1
                    light intensity  
  CI             Current level of total
                    light intensity          0-99        %             -
  LL             Lighting level              Au          (auto)
                                             0           Off
                                             1           1 lamp
                                             2           2 lamps
                                             3           3 lamps
  ud             days of uptime              0-99        Days          -
  uH             hours of uptime             0-23        Hours         -
  uI             minutes of uptime           0-59        Minutes       -
  uS             seconds of uptime           0-59        Seconds       -


Led lamps:
  Power led:
        Behaviour   Description
        on          The external power supply is used.
        blink       The battery is used. external supply is unavailable.
                    Other leds and the display is off.
        off         The device does not work.
  Period led:
        Behaviour   Description
        on          A light period of a day.
        blink       Penalty.
        off         A dark period of a day.
  Lighting led
        on          Extra-lighting runs.
        blink       Extra-lighting is insufficient.
        off         Extra-lighting is not active.

       
